NEXT-30678 - Add documentation for adding shipping methods via manifest.xml (#1140)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/apps/shipping-methods.md

---
nav:
  title: Shipping methods
  position: 25

---

# Shipping methods

> Starting with version REPLACE_WITH_NEXT_RELEASE_VERSION as **experimental feature**. Shopware has introduced experimental functionality for adding shipping methods via the App Manifest to a shop. **The entire functionality and API are subject to change during the development process.**

Reviewer: as it is already merged, it is `6.5.7.0`

> Starting with version REPLACE_WITH_NEXT_RELEASE_VERSION as **experimental feature**. Shopware has introduced experimental functionality for adding shipping methods via the App Manifest to a shop. **The entire functionality and API are subject to change during the development process.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with version 6.5.7.0 as **experimental feature**.
Shopware has introduced experimental functionality for adding shipping methods via the app manifest to a shop.
**The entire functionality and API are subject to change during the development process.**
```

## Prerequisites

> You should be familiar with the concept of Apps, their registration flow as well as signing and verifying requests and responses between Shopware and the App backend server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should be familiar with the concept of apps, their registration flow as well as signing and verifying requests and responses between Shopware and the app backend server.
```

Your app server must be also accessible for the Shopware server.

## Manifest configuration

### Basic configuration
The following example represents the most minimal configuration for a shipping method.

**Important!**

Ensure that the `<identifier>` of your shipping method remains unchanged, as Shopware will deactivate or delete shipping methods that do no longer appear in the manifest during app updates.
```xml
// manifest.xml

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<manifest xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/platform/trunk/src/Core/Framework/App/Manifest/Schema/manifest-2.0.xsd">
    <meta>
        <!-- Make sure that the name of your app does not change anymore, otherwise there will be duplicates of your shipping methods -->
        <name>NameOfYourShippingMethodApp</name>
        <!-- ... -->
    </meta>

    <shipping-methods>

        <shipping-method>
            <!-- The identifier should not change after first release -->
            <identifier>NameOfYourFirstShippingMethod</identifier>
            <name>First shipping method</name>

            <delivery-time>

>                 <!-- Requires a new generated UUID for your new delivery time -->

Reviewer: it is not required, isn't it? if not provided, we will create one?

Author: <xs:element type="delivery-time" name="delivery-time" minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="1"/>

currently it is required

Reviewer 2: Currently testing it and left it out. The app then gets ignored. Do you know if that is logged somewhere? Not sure if that behavior is only like that for this field. It would be interesting in a debugging context.

![2023-10-18_14-17_1](https://github.com/shopware/docs/assets/8600299/6a4722dc-f1a0-477d-af1d-277b105924e9)
![2023-10-18_14-17](https://github.com/shopware/docs/assets/8600299/57d9e215-0a30-48e4-b9b3-ca652d31c153)

Author: I have tested it. At the moment it seems that there is nothing that is logged. I'll create a ticket that a defective manifest is displayed

```xml
// manifest.xml

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<manifest xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/platform/trunk/src/Core/Framework/App/Manifest/Schema/manifest-2.0.xsd">

    ...

    <shipping-methods>

        <shipping-method>
            <!-- Identifier should not change after first release -->
            <identifier>NameOfYourFirstShippingMethod</identifier>
            <name>First shipping method</name>
            <name lang="de-DE">Erste Versandmethode</name>
            <delivery-time>
                <id>c8864e36a4d84bd4a16cc31b5953431b</id>
                <name>From 2 to 4 days</name>
                <min>2</min>
                <max>4</max>
                <unit>day</unit>
            </delivery-time>
            <!-- The following configurations are optional -->
            <description>This is a simple description</description>
            <description lang="de-DE">Das ist eine einfache Beschreibung</description>
            <icon>icon.png</icon>
            <active>true</active>

>             <tracking-url>https://www.yourtrackingurl.com</tracking-url>

Reviewer 3: <position>2</position>

        </shipping-method>

    </shipping-methods>
</manifest>
```
### Description
You can initially add a description for the customer.

::: info

> Please note that the description cannot be modified by the manifest, as the merchant has the ability to change it.

Reviewer: it will not be updated. but you can provide it

Reviewer 2: @swDennis would you change it to 
"Please note that the description cannot be modified by the manifest once the app is installed, as the merchant can change it." or similar. I can add it as well :slightly_smiling_face:

    
    ...

    <shipping-methods>

        <shipping-method>
            <identifier>NameOfYourFirstShippingMethod</identifier>
            <name>First shipping method</name>
            ...
            <active>true</active>
            ...
        </shipping-method>

    </shipping-methods>
</manifest>
```

### Tracking url
It is possible to add a tracking URL for customers to monitor the delivery status.

```xml
// manifest.xml

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<manifest xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/platform/trunk/src/Core/Framework/App/Manifest/Schema/manifest-2.0.xsd">
    
    ...

    <shipping-methods>

        <shipping-method>
            <identifier>NameOfYourFirstShippingMethod</identifier>
            <name>First shipping method</name>
            ...
            <tracking-url>https://www.yourtrackingurl.com</tracking-url>
            ...
        </shipping-method>

    </shipping-methods>
</manifest>

> ```

Reviewer 3: ### Position
Here, you can set the display order of the shipping methods in the checkout.
If the tag is omitted, the position of the shipping method is 1 by default.

```xml
// manifest.xml

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<manifest xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/platform/trunk/src/Core/Framework/App/Manifest/Schema/manifest-2.0.xsd">

    ...

    <shipping-methods>

        <shipping-method>
            <identifier>NameOfYourFirstShippingMethod</identifier>
            <name>First shipping method</name>
            ...
            <position>2</position>
            ...
        </shipping-method>

    </shipping-methods>
</manifest>
```
